# CHOICES OF HABITS 0.0.3-CAH

The diagram below is your single source of truth for how the format should operate and be structured.

The entire document should reflect the single source of truth diagram.

You will find inconsistency, errors, mismatched types in this format. These need to be identified and corrected.

The purpose of this document is to solidify the format / system as tangible, fleshing out all the details, and adding any required metrics that may help further enhance CAH. Below is draft version 0.0.3, and is subject to change during completion.

```css
      ┌── [CHO] ──┐
      v     v     v
      │   [ACT]   │
      │     v     │
      │   [DEC]   │
   v<+│   > v <   │+>v 
┌(emo:│     v     │:phl)┐
│{evb,│     v     │,pvb}│
│ ev2}│     v     │{pv2 │
│  )>-│+<[{ABT}]>+│-<(  │
└─────┤   vvvvv   ├─────┘
      └─ <!DEF!> ─┘
```

## Dictionary

`CHOICE` = `CHO`
`ACTION` = `ATN`
`DECLARE` = `DEC`
`DEFINE` = `DEF`
`ABSOLUTE` = `ABT`
`essential` = `ent`

- `emotional` = `emo`
- `physical` = `phl`
`variable example` = `var`
`variable example two` = `vb2`

### Flow(flo)

- indicates the flow your choice has from initial action to definition outcome

#### `MD-flo`: Multi directional flow

- used to describe the syntax requiring an emotional (left) and physical (right) equal counterpart. This is enforced through the uses of

### Directional Dependant([DD])

- Used to indicate this function is Directional Dependant as per which side it is operating on (left(emotional) or right(physical))

## Continuity Spine(CSP)

### Spine Columns(SC)

The Three Spine Columns can be seen on line 2 of the example below:

```css
|01│  ┌── [CHO] ──┐
|02│  v     v     v
```

1. Main Spine Column(`M-SC`):
   - Centre Main Column that distributes and collects `flow` in the `SC` and its `essentials`, `variables`, `definitions`
2. Emotional Spine Column(`E-SC`):
   - Left side of the `SC` that connects the
     - `emotional essential`
       - its corresponding `variables`
3. Physical Spine Column(`P-SC`)
   - Right side of the `SC` that connects:
     - `physical essential`
       - its corresponding `variables`
  
## Flow Indicators(`FID`) | [DD]

- Represents the group of directional flow indicators that are applied to the `C-SP`

If the FID is traversing the `Continuity Spine`, its contents must have an applicable attribute for both emotional and physical variables.
 **If**
  it does not have an equal [<+emotional>- = <+physical>-] effect that will improve the users life, it does not meet the standards, thus not qualifying.

### Positive: `+>`, `<+`

- Indicates the flow is creating a new connection from the `C-SP` for essentials and variables
- The `+` must always be on the open(or greater than) side of the flow arrow `<` ( `<+`)
- Only required when traversing the `C-SP`

### Neutral: `>`, `<` | [DD]

- Indicates the flow is branching off the `C-SP`

### Closing Negative: `-<`, `>-` | [DD]

- Indicates the closing of a positive flow connection, prepare it as one `block` flow for the `C-SP`
- The `-` must always be on the closed(or less than) side of the flow arrow `<` (`-<`)
- Designed to complete flows, directing their essentials and variables into new ESSENTIALS in the `C-SP`

---

### Examples and Explanations(EE)

[EE.1]:
`Triple V` = `v     v     v`:

- Indicates that a Choice is made, triggering flow down three spine columns.
[EE.2]:
`│  vb2}>│+<[{ABT}]`
Power from emotional side reaches `ABT`, in order to direct the flow into the `Continuity Spine`, a `Opening Flow Indicator` Bracket is required

[EE.3]: Secured Flow Examples
`v<+│   > v <   │+>v`

- the spine branches off two negative flows
- the flows traverse the spine, closing the negative flow from the spine , and creating a new flow outside of the `C-SP`.
  - the `v` Directional Flow indicates the flow is connecting to the `emotional` left side.
    - The same process is mirrored on the right for physical.

[EE.4]:
`>-│+<[{ABT}]>+│-<` : negatives on each side, closing the emotional and physical flow, adding their variables flow back into the `C-SP`
